<!-- NEWS.md is maintained by https://fledge.cynkra.com, contributors should not edit this file -->

# bindrcpp 0.2.4 (2026-02-05)

## Bug fixes

- Register.

## Chore

- Remove plogr (#45).

- Format C++ code.

- Auto-update from GitHub Actions.

  Run: https://github.com/krlmlr/bindrcpp/actions/runs/17450838020

  Run: https://github.com/krlmlr/bindrcpp/actions/runs/14641090525

  Run: https://github.com/krlmlr/bindrcpp/actions/runs/10425482950

  Run: https://github.com/krlmlr/bindrcpp/actions/runs/10200119080

  Run: https://github.com/krlmlr/bindrcpp/actions/runs/9727973898

  Run: https://github.com/krlmlr/bindrcpp/actions/runs/9691614338

- Bump.

## Continuous integration

- Fix comment (#44).

- Tweaks (#43).

- Test all R versions on branches that start with cran- (#42).

- Install binaries from r-universe for dev workflow (#41).

- Fix reviewdog and add commenting workflow (#40).

- Use workflows for fledge (#39).

- Sync (#38).

- Use reviewdog for external PRs (#37).

- Cleanup and fix macOS (#36).

- Format with air, check detritus, better handling of `extra-packages` (#35).

- Enhance permissions for workflow (#34).

- Permissions, better tests for missing suggests, lints (#33).

- Only fail covr builds if token is given (#32).

- Always use `_R_CHECK_FORCE_SUGGESTS_=false` (#31).

- Correct installation of xml2 (#30).

- Explain (#29).

- Add xml2 for covr, print testthat results (#28).

- Fix (#27).

- Sync (#26).

- Avoid failure in fledge workflow if no changes (#25).

- Fetch tags for fledge workflow to avoid unnecessary NEWS entries (#24).

- Use larger retry count for lock-threads workflow (#23).

- Ignore errors when removing pkg-config on macOS (#22).

- Explicit permissions (#21).

- Use styler from main branch (#20).

- Need to install R on Ubuntu 24.04 (#19).

- Correctly detect branch protection (#16).

- Use Ubuntu 24.04 and styler PR (#17).

- Use stable pak (#15).

- Trigger run (#14).

  - ci: Trigger run

  - ci: Latest changes

- Use pkgdown branch (#13).

  - ci: Use pkgdown branch

  - ci: Updates from duckdb

- Install via R CMD INSTALL ., not pak (#12).

  - ci: Install via R CMD INSTALL ., not pak

  - ci: Bump version of upload-artifact action

- Install local package for pkgdown builds.

- Improve support for protected branches with fledge.

- Improve support for protected branches, without fledge.

- Sync with latest developments.

- Use v2 instead of master.

- Inline action.

- Use dev roxygen2 and decor.

- Fix on Windows, tweak lock workflow.

- Avoid checking bashisms on Windows.

- Better commit message.

- Bump versions, better default, consume custom matrix.

- Recent updates.

## Uncategorized

- Internal changes only.

- Merge branch 'cran-0.2.3'.


# bindrcpp 0.2.3 (2023-12-11)

## Bugfix

- Fix `-Wformat-security` warning with R-devel

## Chore

- Install Rcpp from GitHub for CI/CD.


# bindrcpp 0.2.2 (2018-03-29)

- Fix compatibility with dplyr installed and built against an older version of bindrcpp.
- Support callbacks that accept a list. The new `xxx_env_yyy_wrapped()` functions expect a list as payload, and a callback function with `List` instead of `PAYLOAD` as second argument. This helps controlling the lifetime of objects associated with a callback: these can be placed in an `XPtr` inside the `List`. The `xxx_env_yyy()` functions have been aliased to `xxx_env_yyy_typed()` (#7).
- Bump dependency to bindr 0.1.1.


# bindrcpp 0.2 (2017-06-15)

- Fixed very rare segmentation fault due to missing protection of function arguments in autogenerated boilerplate code.
- Fix compilation errors on FreeBSD due to use of nonstandard Make features (#5).
- Native symbol registration added by Rcpp.


# bindrcpp 0.1 (2016-12-08)

Initial CRAN release.

## Exported C++ functions

- `create_env_string()` creates an environment with active bindings, with names given as a character vector.  Access of these bindings triggers a call to a C++ function with a fixed signature (`GETTER_FUNC_STRING`); this call contains the name of the binding (as character) and an arbitrary payload (`PAYLOAD`, essentially a wrapped `void*`).
- `create_env_symbol()` is similar, the callback function accepts the name of the binding as symbol instead of
  character (`GETTER_FUNC_SYMBOL`).
- `populate_env_string()` and `populate_env_symbol()` populate an existing environment instead of creating a new one.
- Use `LinkingTo: bindrcpp` and `#include <bindrcpp.h>` to access these functions from your package.

## Exported R functions

- Reexported from `bindr`: `create_env()` and `populate_env()`.
